CSC 421	Applied Algorithms and Structures	"Fall, Spring, Winter"	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 400, CSC 403"	"This course covers techniques for designing and analyzing algorithms and structures in the context of computer application development. Examples will come from Internet, WWW, database, and computer system applications. Fundamental topics such as running-time analysis, searching and sorting within various structures, divide-and-conquer and dynamic programming will be covered. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 400 and CSC 403"										CSC 436	Web Applications	Fall	"Online, Loop"	None	"This course covers the design and development of modern web applications and their interaction with web services. The primary focus is on client-side web applications using AJAX-techniques to access web services. Possible topics include: HTML5; JavaScript/TypeScript; MVC and single-page application programming models, e.g., AngularJS; programming and security models for browsers; client-side web applications with local storage; data synchronization; HTTP, proxies, and caching; Node.js; RESTful web services. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 435 and CSC 447"										CSC 438	Framework for Web Applications	Fall	"Online, Loop"	CSC 407	"This course introduces concepts, techniques, technologies and APIs for web application development. The main focus of the course is on the Model-View-Controller design pattern employed by modern full-stack web frameworks. Concepts and techniques covered include client/server programming, database abstraction APIs, and asynchronous javascript. Examples of full-stack MVC frameworks include Ruby-on-Rails (written in Ruby), Django and TurboGears (written in Python). PREREQUISITE: CSC 407"										CSC 439	Computer Security	Winter	"Online, Loop"	CSC 407	"This course covers core principles of computer security. Topics include : user authentication; access control (discretionary, mandatory, role-based); security auditing; database security; software security, common vulnerabilities, and secure coding practices; malicious software; and operating system security. Prerequisite(s): CSC 407"										CSC 443	Introduction to Operating Systems	Fall	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 403, CSC 407"	"An advanced course on operating system design and implementation. Process management and scheduling, memory management, file systems, device drivers, access control, and virtualization will be covered. The emphasis of the course will be on implementing components of a functional operating system. PREREQUISITE: CSC 403 and CSC 407"										CSC 448	Compiler Design	Fall	"Online, Loop"	CSC 447	"Design and structure of high level languages. Lexical scan, top down and bottom up syntactic analysis. Syntax directed translation and LR(k) grammars. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 447"										CSC 462	Optimized C++ Multithreading	"Fall, Spring"	"Online, Loop"	"GAM 491, CSC 461"	"Software architecture of applied C++ concurrency and multithreading fundamentals. Basic threading concepts: process model, threads, stacks, fibers, mutexes, semaphores, atomics and events. Leveraging advanced C++ language features relating to the memory model and the threading support in large multithreaded architectures. Architecting lock-based and lock-free concurrent data structures in applications. Designing a threaded management system to control the access and reuse of threads in applications. Designing multithreaded architecture for real-time performance. PREREQUISITE(S): GAM 491 or CSC 461"										CSC 471	Mobile Application Development for iOS	Winter	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 403, CSC 407"	"This course introduces the core issues associated with application development for mobile devices using the iOS platform. Students will learn the Swift language, the XCode IDE, UIKit and other frameworks, the elements and architecture of the user interfaces, and more. Students will be exposed to the iOS system architecture including memory management, MVC, delegates and threads. Topics will also include understanding and handling of multi-touch events, gestures, and motion events. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 403 and CSC 407"										CSC 472	Mobile Application Development for Android	Fall	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 403, CSC 407"	"This course introduces the core issues associated with application development for mobile devices using the Android platform. Students will learn the Eclipse IDE, frameworks, the elements and architecture of user interfaces, graphics, and more. Students will be exposed to the Android system architecture, including Views, Widgets, Resources, Adapters, Intents and Activities. Topics will also include understanding and handling of threads, multi-touch events, gestures, and motion events. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 403 and CSC 407"										CSC 475	Introduction to Robotics	"Fall, Winter"	"Online, Loop"	CSC 407	"An introduction to the field of Robotics. Topics include history of robotics, kinematics, control theory, and sensor theory. A large portion of class time will be lab based, building and programming robots using the Lego Mindstorms NXT Robotics Kit. The programming will be using a C derivative and knowledge of C and general systems concepts is required. PREREQUISITES: CSC 407"										CSC 534	REMOVE														CSC 540	REMOVE														CSC 548	REMOVE														CSC 549	REMOVE														CSC 551	REMOVE														CSC 552	Concurrent Software Development	Fall	"Online, Loop"	"SE 450, CSC 407"	"Fundamentals and techniques of developing concurrent object-oriented applications, using a patterns-based approach. Concepts covered include: threads, synchronization and object locking, thread blocking and deadlock, safety and liveness, state-dependent action and concurrency control. Formerly SE 552. PREREQUISITE(S): SE 450 and CSC 407"									"Online, Loop"	"SE 450, CSC 407"CSC 553	Advanced Database Concepts	Winter	"Online, Loop"	CSC 453	"An introduction to advanced selected topics in databases. The topics include: intelligent and deductive databases, temporal databases, multimedia databases, spatial and geographic databases, fuzzy databases, mobile databases, data mining and data warehousing, as well as emerging issues and concepts in database design, implementation and management. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 453."										CSC 595	Topics in Computer Science	Fall	"Online, Loop"	None	"Specific topics will be selected by the instructor and may vary with each quarter. Can be repeated for credit. Variable credit. PREREQUISITE(S): For specific prerequisites, see syllabus or consult course instructor. (variable credit)"										CNS 450	Digital Forensic Techniques	Fall	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 407, CNS 418"	"This course focuses on the forensic acquisition, analysis and presentation of data from computer systems. This course covers: preservation and interpretation of evidence; forensic imaging; file systems and data recovery; Windows registry forensics; internet history and social media analysis; mobile device forensics; timeline analysis; incident response and writing expert reports and testimony. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 407 or CNS 418"										GAM 690	Game Development Studio I	"Fall, Winter"	"Online, Loop"	GAM 475	"In this course and its continuation GAM 691, students will work in small teams to design and implement a computer game. The courses must be taken consecutively. PREREQUISITE: GAM 475"										GAM 691	Game Development Studio II	"Spring, Winter"	"Online, Loop"	"GAM 474, SE 456"	Continuation of GAM 690. PREREQUISITE: GAM 474 or SE 456 (variable credit)										TDC 478	Information Storage and Management	Fall	"Online, Loop"	None	"This course provides a comprehensive overview of network-based storage technology and information storage infrastructure. Major topics include the storage architectures, service features, and benefits of Intelligent Storage Systems. Networked storage technologies include fiber channel (FC), based Storage Area Network (SAN), Network Attached Storage (NAS), and IP-SAN. Advanced storage technologies on Content Addressed Storage (CAS), information security, and storage virtualization are also discussed. PREREQUISITE(S): none"										TDC 484	Scripting for Network Management	Winter	"Online, Loop"	TDC 413	"This is a hands-on course on using script languages to develop practical applications for Network Management. Students will first learn the fundamentals of Linux system and script language(s) for task automation, and use scripts to develop dynamic web sites. After that, the course will cover Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), and use Application Programming Interface (API) to automate networks tasks of Fault Management, Configuration Management, Accounting Management, Performance Management, and Security Management (FCAPS). The final project of the course is to develop a dynamic web site with the above five functional areas to manage Linux servers, Ethernet switches and IP routers. PREREQUISITE(S): TDC 413"										TDC 568	Network Management	Spring	"Online, Loop"	TDC 463	"The five major areas of network management--fault management, performance management, security, accounting and configuration management-are discussed. Advanced topics such as fault diagnosis and isolation, event correlation, MIB design, SNMP programming, performance monitoring, service level agreements and network security architectures are also discussed. PREREQUISITE(S): TDC 463"										CSC 431	Scientific Computing	Winter	"Online, Loop"	CSC 401	"This course presents fundamental numerical algorithms for solving problems in scientific computing and computational finance. Areas covered include: error analysis, computer arithmetic, linear algebra, optimization problems, numerical integration (solvers), ordinary differential equations (ODE). The emphasis of the course is on the design of the algorithms, and their analysis. Algorithms will be implemented using mathematical software. PREREQUISITE(S): (CSC 401 and two quarters of calculus) or instructor permission"										CSC 440	Cryptology	Winter	"Online, Loop"	CSC 403	"Introduction to the methods of cryptography and cryptanalysis. Topics include classical cryptography (codes, monoalphabetic and polyalphabetic substitution ciphers, transposition ciphers), modern block ciphers (such as DES, AES), and public key cryptography (such as RSA). Optional topics include zero-knowledge protocols, information theory, coding theory, error-correcting codes, steganography, stream ciphers, hashing algorithms, quantum cryptography, elliptic curve cryptography, and history. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 403"										CSC 444	REMOVE														CSC 489	Theory of Computation	Fall	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 444, CSC 421"	"Advanced topics in the mathematical foundations of computation. Topics may include random access and Turing machines, recursive functions, algorithms, computability and computational complexity, intractable problems, NP-complete problems. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 444 or CSC 421."										CSC 503	REMOVE														CSC 525	Combinatorial Optimization	Winter	"Online, Loop"	CSC 421	"This course defines and introduces the concepts and techniques needed to formulate and model optimization problems. A set of fundamental problems in combinatorial optimization will be covered together with their applications. The emphasis will be on the design and analysis of algorithms for such problems. The computational complexity of this set of problems (easy/hard to solve/approximate) will be discussed, and techniques for coping with intractable problems will be introduced. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 421."										CSC 531	REMOVE														CSC 535	REMOVE														CSC 547	REMOVE														CSC 557	REMOVE														CSC 580	REMOVE														CSC 591	REMOVE														CSC 425	REMOVE														CSC 433	REMOVE														CSC 481	Introduction to Image Processing	Fall	"Online, Loop"	CSC 412	"The course is a prerequisite for more advanced Visual Computing (VC) courses and the students will be challenged to implement VC algorithms for real world applications. The topics covered in the course include: components of an image processing system and its applications, elements of visual perception, sampling and quantization, image enhancement by histogram equalization, color spaces and transformations, introduction to segmentation (Edge detection), and morphological image processing. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 412 or consent of instructor"										CSC 482	Applied Image Analysis	Winter	"Online, Loop"	CSC 481	"Fundamentals of computational image analysis will be explored in terms of its two most important components, image information extraction and modeling of image patterns. These components will be studied in the context of image representation, segmentation, classification, retrieval and recognition. The course will be useful for students interested in image analysis related to areas such as image databases, multimedia management, animation, GIS, computer graphics, medical imaging, remote sensing and robotics. Specific topics include, but are not limited to segmentation, multi-scale representation, shape analysis, texture analysis, Fourier analysis, wavelets, Gabor and fractal analysis, template matching, and object recognition. PREREQUISITE(S) CSC 481"										CSC 575	Intelligent Information Retrieval	Winter	"Online, Loop"	CSC 403	"Examination of the design, implementation, and evaluation of information retrieval systems. The focus is on the underlying retrieval models, algorithms, and system implementations. Also examined is how an effective information search and retrieval is interrelated with the organization and description of information to be retrieved. Topics include: automatic indexing; thesaurus generation; Boolean, vector-space, and probabilistic models; clustering and classification; information filtering; distributed IR on the WWW; intelligent information agents; IR system evaluation; information visualization; and natural language processing in IR. Throughout the course, current literature from the viewpoints of both research and practical retrieval technologies both on and off the World Wide Web will be examined. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 403"										CSC 578	Neural Networks and Deep Learning	Fall	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 412, DSC 478, CSC 403, DSC 441"	"Course focuses on the algorithms, implement, and application of neural networks for learning about data. It will present how neural networks represent data and learn in supervised and unsupervised contexts with applications to language processing, classification, and regression problems. Topics include learning algorithms, and optimization methods, deep learning methods for deriving deep representations from surface features, recursive networks, Boltzmann machines and convolutional networks. PREREQUISITE(S): (CSC 412 and DSC 478) or (CSC 403 and DSC 441)"										CSC 598	REMOVE														CSC 454	Database Administration and Management	"Winter, Summer II"	Online	"CSC 451, CSC 453, CSC 455"	"This course is designed to give students a comprehensive foundation in database administration and management. The course provides a conceptual understanding of the database architecture and how its components work and interact with one another. Topics covered in this course include: database architecture, capacity planning, installation and maintenance, network configuration, security management, utilities and tools, industry standards and guidelines, database management techniques and practices. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 451 or CSC 453 or CSC 455"										CSC 589	REMOVE														CSC 457	REMOVE														CSC 458	Symbolic Programming	Winter	"Online, Loop"	CSC 403	"Concepts of symbolic programming as embodied in the language LISP. Basic data and control structures of LISP: symbolic expressions, the interpreter, functions, recursion, iteration. Techniques for prototyping and building conceptually advanced systems in an environment that encourages procedural and data abstraction. Advanced topics may include Prolog, intelligent tutoring systems, intelligent agents, and natural language processing. Assignments will focus on basic AI techniques, but the class is intended for anyone who will need to rapidly develop large complex systems. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 403"										CSC 538	REMOVE														CSC 576	Computational Advertising	Winter	"Online, Loop"	"IS 467, CSC 478, ECT 584"	"Computational advertising is the problem of finding the best advertisement for a given user in a given on-line context. It is a complex and emerging area at the intersection of quantitative marketing, web search, data mining, recommendation, optimization, and algorithmic game theory. Students will read current scientific papers and explore a range of models both mathematically and empirically. Students can choose from three types of final course projects: implementation projects, research papers, or data analysis projects. Prerequisite(s): IS 467 or CSC 478 or ECT 584"										CSC 583	REMOVE														CSC 587	Cognitive Science	Winter	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 403, HCI 460"	"A study of the relationships between our knowledge of human and computer intelligence. Levels of analysis of intelligent system, examples of cognitive models, and exposure to current publications, with an emphasis on those related to human computer interaction. Students will participate in the design and testing of models of human intelligence, both experimentally and using computer models. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 403 or HCI 460."										CSC 592	REMOVE														GEO 441	Geographic Information Systems for Community Development	"Fall, Summer"	"Loop, LPC"	None	"This course will focus on applications of Geographic Information Systems (GIS) to community studies and community development. As an amalgam of information technologies (e.g. database management, Web 2.0) and earth measurement technologies (e.g. global positioning systems, remote sensing), GIS is rapidly entering the realm of community development. The course will explain how GIS works; enable students to learn techniques including mapping, spatial analysis, and data management; and provide students with the opportunity to apply GIS to community development. Cross-listed with MPS 552."										GEO 442	Geographical Information Systems (Gis) for Sustainable Urban Development	Winter	LPC	GEO 441	"This course will examine how GIS has been used to monitor, and evaluate efforts advancing sustainability in urban areas. Students will learn geospatial techniques in support of sustainable practices, including promoting energy efficiency, managing water resources, promoting sustainable options of transportation, improving access to local healthy foods, and responding to climate change. This is accomplished through hands-on lab activities and a case study conducted in collaboration with a non-profit organization engaged in promotion of sustainable practices in Chicago. GEO 441 (or instructor permission) is a prerequisite for this course."										GAM 425	Applied 3D Geometry	Fall	"Online, Loop"	CSC 403	"Review of mathematical foundation and techniques needed for the development of 3D graphics and game systems. This class will provide the foundation in linear algebra and 3D geometry required for implementing common tasks in 3D graphics and game systems. Topics include: vectors, matrices, transforms, coordinate changes, projections, intersection, interpolation and random number generator. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 403"										GAM 450	Physics for Game Developers	Spring	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 461, SE 450, SE 456"	"The course concentrates on Newton's Laws of Motion, kinematics and kinetics. This theory will be applied to problems that a game programmer must understand e.g. collisions between objects, projectiles and their trajectories, real-time simulation of motion. Special objects such as cars, aircraft and ships will be discussed. Students will apply and implement laws of physics. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 461 and (SE 456 or SE 450)"										GAM 453	Tool Programming for Game Development	Fall	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 461, SE 450, SE 456"	"This course focuses on the parsing and conditioning of game related assets for real-time game engines. Topics include the content pipeline, processing or standard file formats using modern API, integration of external tools, run-time file format design, command line and graphical user interfaces. Adaptive real-time modification of data structures in game using managed languages (such as C#) reflection will be explored. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 461 and (SE 456 or SE 450)"										GAM 470	Rendering and Graphics Programming	Winter	"Online, Loop"	"GAM 425, CSC 461"	"This programming class will present the rendering pipeline and basic shader creation. Students will create their own graphics package using a high-level graphics API such as Direct X. Performance issues will be considered as part of the API design. Topics covered include illumination techniques, Gouraud and Phong shading, antialiasing techniques, texture mapping, blending and environment mapping, reflection and hardware instancing. PREREQUISITE(S): GAM 425 and CSC 461"										GAM 475	Game Engine Programming I	Fall	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 461, SE 450, SE 456"	"This course designs and implements a custom real-time game engine. Developing real-time graphics systems to transform and render scene graphs using polygon primitives and hardware buffers. Architecting critical performance related operating system components such as Memory, File, Object and Math Systems. Designing large scale software architecture using Design Patterns, layers and libraries into one large project. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 461 and (SE 456 or SE 450)"										GAM 476	Artificial Intelligence for Computer Games	Fall	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 461, SE 450, SE 456"	"Artificial Intelligence (AI) is one of the essential components of a computer game. The course introduces basic concepts of AI. Emphasis will be placed on applications of AI in various genres of computer games. In the implementation component of this course students will be exposed to the existing AI game engines (middleware), which contain implemented AI algorithms that are ready to be applied into game code. These algorithms include: decision trees, pathfinding, neural networks, and script-driven game object behaviors. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 461 and (SE 456 or SE 450)"										GAM 486	REMOVE														GAM 575	Game Engine Programming II	Winter	"Online, Loop"	GAM 475	"This class continues to explore C/C++ game engine programming. This course focuses on 3D keyframe animation systems and 3D model asset conversion. Topics include design of an extensive Math library including Quaternion interpolation, view volume determination, exporting and conditioning of parent relative keyframe animation data, and run-time animation engine. Finally implementation of run-time data formats for vertex buffer objects will be developed for efficient rendering. PREREQUISITE(S): GAM 475"										GAM 576	Game Engine Programming III	Spring	"Online, Loop"	GAM 575	"This class continues to explore C/C++ game engine programming. This class focuses on advanced game engine issues such as tool development (skin data reduction, adaptive animation compression, model conversion), runtime coordination on CPU (scene graph, animation coordination, resource management) and GPU processing (vertex skinning, animation blending and model rendering). PREREQUISITE(S): GAM 575"										GPH 436	REMOVE														GPH 469	Computer Graphics Development	Winter	"Online, Loop"	"CSC 461, GAM 425, GPH 436"	Basic graphics architecture. Coordinate systems. Three-dimensional representations and transformations. Simple visible-surface algorithms. Introduction to illumination. Gouraud and Phong shading. Antialiasing. Texture mapping and elements of animation. Students create a graphics package using a high-level graphics API such as OpenGL. PREREQUISITE(S): CSC 461 and (GAM 425 or GPH 436)										GPH 570	REMOVE														GPH 572	REMOVE														GPH 580	REMOVE														CSC 492	REMOVE														CNS 440	Information Security Management	"Fall, Spring, Winter"	"Online, Loop"	None	"Survey of information security management as it applies to information systems analysis, design, and operations. Managing information assets and the security infrastructure. Emphasis on managing security-related risk, as well as the process of developing, implementing, and maintaining organizational policies, standards, procedures, and guidelines. Identifying and evaluating information assets, threats, and vulnerabilities. Quantitative and qualitative risk analysis, risk mitigation, residual risk, and risk treatment as they relate to information security. Topics include information security vulnerabilities, threats, and risk management; security policies and standards; security audits; access controls; network perimeter protection, data protection; physical security; security education training and awareness. Introduction to compliance, as well as the CISSP domains. PREREQUISITE(S): None"										IPD 447	Big Data Using Hadoop Program	"Fall, Spring, Winter"	"Online, Loop"	See Advisor	A 11-week certificate program covering the Apache Hadoop framework and how it fits with Big Data. This program requires a separate application for admission and $40 application fee. Please visit IPD.CDM.DEPAUL.EDU for information on how to enroll.										IPD 451	Big Data and NoSQL Program	"Summer, Spring, Winter, Fall"	"Online, Loop"	See Advisor	A 11-week certificate program covering popular NoSQL databases and how they fit with Big Data. This program requires a separate application for admission and $40 application fee. Please visit IPD.CDM.DEPAUL.EDU for information on how to enroll.										IPD 460	SQL Server Business Intelligence Program	"Winter, Fall"	"Online, Loop"	See Advisor	"An 11-week in-depth certificate program covering Microsoft SQL Server analysis services, integration services, and reporting services. This program requires a separate application for admission and $40 application fee. Please visit IPD.CDM.DEPAUL.EDU for information on how to enroll."										IPD 463	SQL Server Database Administration Program	"Fall, Spring, Winter"	"Online, Loop"	See Advisor	An 11-week certificate program covering database administration using Microsoft SQL Server. This program requires a separate application for admission and a $40 application fee. Please visit IPD.CDM.DEPAUL.EDU for information on how to enroll.										